Aconitum Napellus (Acon.)
Common Name: Monkshood

Mind: Great fear and anxiety of mind, with great nervous excitability; afraid to go out, to go into a crowd where there is any excitement or many people; to cross the street. The countenance is expressive of fear; the life is rendered miserable by fear. Restless, anxious, does everything in great haste. Music is unbearable, makes her sad. Thinks his thoughts come from the stomach. Thinks parts of his body are abnormally thick.

Head: Fullness; heavy, pulsating, hot, bursting, burning, undulating sensation. Vertigo on rising. Burning headache, as if brain was moved by boiling water.

Eyes: Red, inflamed. Feel dry and hot, as if sand in them. Lids swollen, hard and red. Aversion to light. Profuse watering after exposure to dry, cold winds.

Ears: Very sensitive to noises. External ear hot, swollen, red. Roaring in ears.

Nose: Smell acutely sensitive. Pain at root of nose. Coryza; much sneezing.

Face: Red, hot, flushed, swollen. One cheek red, the other pale. Tingling in cheeks and numbness. Neuralgia of trigeminus.

Mouth: Numb, dry and tingling. Tongue swollen; tingling at tip. Teeth sensitive to cold. Gums hot and inflamed.

Throat: Red, dry, constricted. Tonsils swollen and dry.

Stomach: Vomiting, with fear, heat, profuse sweat and increased urination. Thirst for large quantities of cold water. Bitter taste of everything except water.

Abdomen: Hot, tense, tympanitic. Sensitive to touch. Colic, no position relieves.

Stool: Watery, slimy, bloody. From cold or suppressed perspiration.

Urine: Scanty, red, hot, painful. Retention, with screaming and restlessness.

Respiratory: Hoarse, dry, croupy cough. Shortness of breath. Larynx sensitive to touch. Constant pressure in left chest; oppressed breathing.

Heart: Palpitation, with anxiety, fainting, and tingling in fingers. Pulse full, hard, tense and bounding.

Back: Numb, stiff, painful. Crawling and tingling, as if bruised.

Extremities: Numbness and tingling; shooting pains; icy coldness and insensibility of hands and feet. Arms feel lame, bruised, heavy, numb.

Fever: High fever. Skin dry and hot. Must be covered. Chilly if uncovered or touched.

Belladonna (Bell.)
Common Name: Deadly Nightshade

Mind: Furious delirium, with desire to bite, strike, and escape. Acuteness of all senses. Imaginary things, sees ghosts, hideous faces.

Head: Throbbing, pulsating headache. Pain worse from light, noise, jarring. Head hot, but feet cold.

Eyes: Pupils dilated. Eyes brilliant, staring. Photophobia.

Face: Red, hot, flushed. Swelling of upper lip.

Throat: Dry, as if glazed; red. Tonsils swollen. Sensation of a lump.

Stomach: Loss of appetite. Averse to water. Spasmodic hiccough.

Abdomen: Distended, painful, tender. Transverse colon protrudes like a pad.

Stool: Thin, green, dysenteric. Involuntary. Shuddering during stool.

Urine: Retention. Sensation of motion in bladder, as of a worm.

Female: Pains come and go suddenly. Bearing-down sensation. Dryness and heat of vagina.

Respiratory: Larynx feels sore. Dry, short, tickling cough, worse at night.

Fever: High fever, with burning, pungent, steaming heat. Feet ice-cold. No thirst with fever.

Lachesis (Lach.)
Common Name: Bushmaster

Mind: Great loquacity. Jumps from one idea to another. Jealousy. Sad in the morning.

Head: Throbbing headache, especially at climaxis. Pain extends to nose.

Throat: Sore, worse on left side. Swallowing liquids more painful than solids. Sensation of a lump which descends on swallowing but returns.

Heart: Palpitation with fainting spells, especially during climacteric.

Female: Climacteric ailments: hemorrhages, hot flushes, burning vertex headaches, fainting spells. Menses too short, too feeble; pains all relieved by the flow.

Sleep: Sleeps into an aggravation. Suffocative spells after sleep.

Modalities: Worse after sleep, left side, in the spring, warm bath, pressure or constriction. Better from appearance of discharges, warm applications.

Pulsatilla (Puls.)
Common Name: Wind Flower

Mind: Weeps easily; can hardly tell her symptoms for weeping. Mild, gentle, yielding disposition. Changeable moods.

Head: Wandering stitches about the head. Pulsating headache.

Ears: Otitis. Thick, bland, yellowish-green discharge.

Nose: Coryza; stoppage of right nostril, pressing pain at root of nose. Loss of smell.

Stomach: Aversion to fat food, warm food, and drink. Thirstless. Taste of food remains a long time.

Stool: Diarrhoea only or usually at night. No two stools alike.

Female: Menses suppressed from getting feet wet. Too late, scanty, thick, dark, clotted, changeable, intermittent.

Modalities: Worse from heat, rich fat food, after eating, towards evening. Better in open air, motion, cold applications, cold food and drinks, though not thirsty.

Sulphur (Sulph.)
Mind: Forgetful. Selfish, no regard for others. Religious melancholy. Thinks old rags are beautiful things.

Head: Burning on top of head.

Eyes: Burning, ulcerative pain in lids.

Stomach: Complete loss of, or excessive appetite. Great thirst for ale and beer. Milk disagrees.

Abdomen: Sensation of a band around abdomen.

Stool: Diarrhoea, driving out of bed early in morning. Itching and burning of anus.

Skin: Unhealthy; every little injury suppurates. Itching, burning; worse scratching and washing.

Modalities: Worse at rest, when standing, warmth in bed, washing, bathing, in morning, 11 am. Better dry, warm weather, lying on right side.

Lycopodium (Lyc.)
Common Name: Club Moss

Mind: Apprehensive. Loss of self-confidence. Haughty when sick.

Head: Shakes head without apparent cause.

Stomach: Great appetite, but a few mouthfuls fill him up. Sour eructations.

Abdomen: Bloated, full, distended after eating.

Urine: Red sand in urine.

Respiratory: Cough, with salty expectoration.

Modalities: Worse from 4 to 8 pm, from heat or warm room. Better from motion, after midnight, from warm food and drink, on getting cold, from being uncovered.

Sepia (Sep.)
Common Name: Cuttlefish Ink

Mind: Indifference to loved ones. Averse to occupation and family. Weeps when telling symptoms.

Head: Vertigo, with sensation of something rolling around in head.

Stomach: Sensation of emptiness in stomach and abdomen. Nausea at smell or sight of food.

Abdomen: Bearing-down sensation, as if everything would escape through vulva; must cross limbs to prevent it.

Female: Menses too late and scanty; or too early and profuse.

Back: Pain in small of back.

Modalities: Worse forenoons and evenings; washing, laundry-work, dampness, left side, after sweat. Better by exercise, pressure, warmth of bed, hot applications, drawing limbs up.

Natrum Muriaticum (Nat-m.)
Common Name: Common Salt

Mind: Ill effects of grief, fright, anger. Depressed. Consolation aggravates.

Head: Blinding headache. As if a thousand little hammers were knocking on the brain.

Eyes: Tears stream down face on coughing.

Mouth: Frothy coating on tongue, with bubbles on side.

Stomach: Thirsty; great desire for salt.

Skin: Greasy, oily, especially on hairy parts.

Modalities: Worse at 10 am, at seashore, from heat. Better in open air, cold bathing, going without regular meals, lying on right side.

Silicea (Sil.)
Common Name: Pure Flint

Mind: Yielding, faint-hearted. Wants to be magnetized.

Head: Profuse sweat of head, offensive, and extends to neck.

Nose: Itching at point of nose.

Stool: Constipation; stool comes down with great difficulty, and when partly expelled, recedes again.

Extremities: Icy-cold feet. Offensive sweat on feet, hands, and axillae.

Skin: Unhealthy; every little injury suppurates.

Modalities: Worse from new moon, in morning, from washing, during menses, from uncovering. Better in warmth, wrapping up head, wet or humid weather.
