Aconite
The first and most prominent feature of the Aconite patient is his fear. FEAR is depicted on his countenance. He is anxious, restless, and in constant dread of something, he knows not what. This fear may be a fear of death, of a crowd, of crossing a street, etc. He predicts the day he will die.

Another characteristic is the suddenness and violence of its symptoms. The patient is well one moment, and very sick the next. The complaints of A-conite are generally accompanied by a high fever, a full, hard, and bounding pulse, and great thirst for large quantities of cold water.

The skin is hot and dry. There is no sweat. If a sweat breaks out, Aconite is no longer the remedy.

Pains are a prominent feature of Aconite. They are sharp, shooting, or tearing, and are accompanied by numbness, tingling, or crawling. They are intolerable and drive the patient to despair. He cannot bear the pain, cannot bear to be touched, cannot bear to be uncovered.

Aconite is especially useful in the first stage of inflammatory diseases, such as croup, pneumonia, pleurisy, etc., when there is high fever, dry, hot skin, and restlessness. It is also useful in the effects of fright, such as fainting, convulsions, etc.

Modalities: Aggravation from exposure to dry, cold winds; in a warm room; in the evening and at night. Amelioration in the open air.

Belladonna
Belladonna is another great remedy for the first stage of inflammatory diseases. It is similar to Aconite in many respects, but there are some important differences.

Like Aconite, Belladonna has a high fever, but the skin is not so dry as in Aconite. There is a tendency to sweat, especially on the head and face. The face is red, hot, and flushed, and the pupils are dilated.

The pulse is full and bounding, as in Aconite, but it is not so hard and tense. The carotids throb violently.

The pains of Belladonna are throbbing, pulsating, or shooting. They come and go suddenly. The patient is very sensitive to jarring, to light, and to noise.

The delirium of Belladonna is furious. The patient wants to bite, to strike, to tear things. He sees ghosts and hideous faces. He tries to escape.

Belladonna is especially useful in eruptive fevers, such as scarlet fever and measles, when the eruption is bright red and smooth. It is also useful in tonsillitis, appendicitis, and other inflammatory conditions of the abdomen.

Modalities: Aggravation from jarring, from light, from noise, from being touched, from drafts of air. Amelioration from rest, in a warm room.

Bryonia
Bryonia is another great remedy for inflammatory diseases, but it is quite different from Aconite and Belladonna.

The great characteristic of Bryonia is the aggravation from motion. The patient wants to lie perfectly still. The slightest motion aggravates all his symptoms. He does not want to be moved or even spoken to.

The pains of Bryonia are stitching, tearing, or shooting. They are worse from motion and better from pressure. The patient lies on the painful side to keep it still.

The fever of Bryonia is not so high as in Aconite and Belladonna. The skin is dry and hot, but not so burning as in the other two remedies. There is great thirst for large quantities of cold water at long intervals.

The mouth is dry and the tongue is coated white or yellow. The bowels are constipated. The stool is dry and hard, as if burnt.

Bryonia is especially useful in pneumonia, pleurisy, and rheumatism, when the characteristic aggravation from motion is present. It is also useful in headaches which are worse from stooping, from coughing, and from the slightest motion.

Modalities: Aggravation from motion, in the morning, from heat. Amelioration from rest, from pressure, from lying on the painful side, from cold things.

Chamomilla
Chamomilla is pre-eminently a children's remedy. The Chamomilla child is cross, irritable, and peevish. He wants to be carried. He wants this and that, and when it is given to him he does not want it. He is only quiet when he is carried.

One cheek is red and hot, and the other is pale and cold. This is a very characteristic symptom of Chamomilla.

The pains of Chamomilla are intolerable. They drive the patient to despair. He is very sensitive to pain. He cannot bear it.

Chamomilla is especially useful in dentition, when the child is cross and irritable, and has one cheek red and the other pale. It is also useful in colic, when the child bends double and screams. The stools are green and slimy, like chopped eggs and spinach.

The Chamomilla patient is very sensitive to the open air. He is worse from wind. He wants to be covered up.

Modalities: Aggravation from heat, from anger, in the open air, from wind, at night. Amelioration from being carried, from warm, wet weather.

Pulsatilla
The Pulsatilla patient is mild, gentle, and yielding. She is easily moved to tears. She weeps when she tells her symptoms.

The symptoms of Pulsatilla are very changeable. No two chills are alike, no two stools are alike, no two attacks are alike.

The discharges of Pulsatilla are thick, bland, and yellowish-green. This is true of the discharges from the nose, the ears, the eyes, and the vagina.

The Pulsatilla patient is thirstless. She is not thirsty even with a high fever. She has an aversion to fat food, to rich food, and to warm food.

She is better in the open air. She feels better when she is walking slowly in the open air. She is worse in a warm room, and in the evening.

Pulsatilla is especially useful in measles, when the eruption is suppressed or delayed. It is also useful in menstrual disorders, when the menses are late, scanty, and irregular. The pains are changeable and shifting.

Modalities: Aggravation in a warm room, in the evening, from fat food. Amelioration in the open air, from cold things, from gentle motion.

Nux Vomica
The Nux vomica patient is thin, spare, and irritable. He is very sensitive to all external impressions. He cannot bear noise, or light, or odors. He is chilly and wants to be covered up.

He is very particular and fastidious. He is easily offended. He is prone to anger and to fits of passion.

Nux vomica is pre-eminently a remedy for the bad effects of a sedentary life, of over-study, of business worries, of coffee, of tobacco, of alcoholic liquors, and of highly seasoned food.

The great characteristic of Nux vomica is the ineffectual urging to stool. The patient has frequent urging to stool, but is able to pass only a small quantity at a time. He feels as if the stool were not all passed.

Nux vomica is also useful in coryza, when the nose is stopped up at night and runs during the day. It is worse in a warm room and better in the open air.

Modalities: Aggravation in the morning, from mental exertion, after eating, from stimulants, in a warm room, from the slightest touch. Amelioration in the evening, from rest, in a damp, wet weather.
