Project Gutenberg's Organon of the Medical Art, by Samuel Hahnemann

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Organon of the Medical Art

Author: Samuel Hahnemann

Release Date: March 29, 2009 [EBook #24822]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ORGANON OF THE MEDICAL ART ***


Aconitum napellus (Acon.)
Mind: Great fear, anxiety, and worry accompany every ailment, however trivial. Delirium is characterized by unhappiness, worry, despair, and fear. Restlessness, tossing about. Hahnemann's prover felt "as if he would die," but was not afraid to die.

Belladonna (Bell.)
Mind: A state of fury, a desire to strike, bite, and tear things. Delirium. Acuteness of all the senses.

Lachesis mutus (Lach.)
Mind: Great loquacity. Amative. Sad in the morning; no desire to mix with the world. Restless and uneasy; does not wish to attend to business; wants to be off somewhere all the time. Jealous.

Pulsatilla nigricans (Puls.)
Mind: Weeps easily. Timid, irresolute. Fears in the evening to be alone, ghosts. Easily discouraged.

Sulphur (Sulph.)
Mind: Very selfish, no regard for others. Forgetful. Thinks rags beautiful.

Lycopodium clavatum (Lyc.)
Mind: Apprehensive, gloomy, reserved. Loss of self-confidence. Haughty, desirous of being noticed.

Sepia officinalis (Sep.)
Mind: Indifferent to those loved best. Averse to occupation, to family. Irritable, easily offended.

Natrum muriaticum (Nat-m.)
Mind: Psychic causes of disease; ill effects of grief, fright, anger, etc. Depressed, particularly in chronic diseases.

Silicea terra (Sil.)
Mind: Yielding, faint-hearted, anxious. Conscientious about trifles.

Phosphorus (Phos.)
Mind: Great lowness of spirits. Easily vexed. Fearfulness, as if something were creeping out of every corner.

Arsenicum album (Ars.)
Mind: Great anguish and restlessness. Changes place continually. Fears, of death, of being left alone.

Nux vomica (Nux-v.)
Mind: Very irritable: sensitive to all impressions. Cannot bear noises, odors, light. Does not want to be touched.

Calcarea carbonica (Calc.)
Mind: Apprehensive; fears loss of reason, misfortune, contagious diseases. Forgetful, confused, low-spirited.

Gelsemium sempervirens (Gels.)
Mind: Desire to be quiet, to be left alone. Dullness of mind. Inability to think or fix the attention.

Ignatia amara (Ign.)
Mind: Effects of grief and worry. Sighing and sobbing. After-effects of fright, fear, and shame.

Chamomilla (Cham.)
Mind: Whining restlessness. The child wants many things which he refuses when offered. Piteous moaning.

Hepar sulphuris calcareum (Hep.)
Mind: The slightest cause irritates him. Dejected and sad. Anguish in the evening.

Mercurius vivus (Merc.)
Mind: Hurried and rapid talking. Weak memory. Restless, with desire to flee.

Rhus toxicodendron (Rhus-t.)
Mind: Listless, sad. Anxious, full of fears. Restlessness, cannot stay in one place.

Bryonia alba (Bry.)
Mind: Irritable, inclined to be angry. Delirium; wants to go home.

Staphysagria (Staph.)
Mind: Ill-humored, irritable, sensitive. Ailments from indignation, with vexation or reserved displeasure.

Thuja occidentalis (Thuj.)
Mind: Fixed ideas, as if a strange person were at his side; as if soul and body were separated. Emotional sensitiveness; music causes weeping and trembling.

Apis mellifica (Apis)
Mind: Apathy, indifference, and unconsciousness. Awkward; lets everything fall. Jealousy.

Cantharis vesicatoria (Canth.)
Mind: Anxious restlessness, ending in rage. Constantly attempts to do something, but accomplishes nothing.

China officinalis (Chin.)
Mind: Ailments from loss of vital fluids. Selects wrong words. Oversensitiveness of all senses.

Colocynthis (Coloc.)
Mind: Extremely irritable and impatient. Becomes angry when questioned.

Ipecacuanha (Ip.)
Mind: Irritable, and holds everything in contempt. Full of desires, but does not know for what.

Podophyllum peltatum (Podo.)
Mind: Loquacity and delirium from eating acid fruits. Depression of spirits.

Veratrum album (Verat.)
Mind: Melancholy, with stupor and mania. Sits in a stupid manner, notices nothing. Cursing and howling all night.
