ABIES CANADENSIS-PINUS CANADENSIS 
Head.--Feels light-headed, tipsy. Irritable. 
Stomach.--Canine hunger with torpid liver. Gnawing, hungry, faint feeling at the epigastrium. 
Great appetite, craving for meat, pickles, radishes, turnips, artichokes, coarse food. Tendency to 
eat far beyond capacity for digestion. Burning and distention of stomach and abdomen with 
palpitation. Flatulence disturbs the heart's action. Pain in right shoulder-blade, and constipation, 
with burning in rectum. 
Female.--Uterine displacements. Sore feeling at fundus of uterus, relieved by pressure. 
Prostration; wants to lie down all the time. Thinks womb is soft and feeble. 
Fever.--Cold shivering, as if blood were ice-water (Acon). Chills run down back. Cold water 
feeling between shoulders (Ammon mur). Skin clammy and sticky. Night-sweat (China). 
Dose.--First to third potency. 

ABIES NIGRA 
Head.--Hot, with flushed cheeks. Low-spirited. Dull during the day, wakeful at night. Unable to 
think. 
Stomach.--Pain in stomach always comes on after eating. Sensation of a lump that hurts, as ifa 
hard-boiled egg had lodged in cardiac end of stomach; continual distressing constriction just 
above the pit of the stomach, as if everything were knotted up. Total loss of appetite in morning, 
but great craving for food at noon and night. Offensive breath. Eructations. 
Chest.--Painful sensation, as if something were lodged in the chest and had to be coughed up; 
lungs feel compressed. Cannot be fully expanded. Worse coughing; waterbrash succeeds cough. 
Choking sensation in throat. Dyspnoea; worse lying down; sharp, cutting pain in heart; heart's 
action heavy and slow; tachycardia, bradycardia. 
Back.--Pain in small of back. Rheumatic pains and aching in bones. 
Sleep.--Wakeful and restless at night, with hunger. Bad dreams. 
Fever.--Alternate heat and cold; chronic intermittent fever, with pain in stomach. 
Modalities.-- Worse after eating. 
Relationship.--Compare: (Lump in stomach--China, Bryon, Pulsat); also other Conifers-- Thuja, 
Sabina, Cupressus (painful indigestion) also Nux vom, Kali carb. 
Dose.--First to thirtieth potency. 

ABRUS PRECATORIUS -- JEQUIRITY 
Eyes.--Purulent conjunctivitis; inflammation spreads to face and neck. Granular ophthalmia. 
Keratitis. 
Relationship.--Compare: Jequiritol (in cases of trachoma and pannus to engraft a new purulent 
inflammation. The proteid poisons contained in Jequirity seeds are almost identical in their 
physiological and toxic properties with the similar principles found in snake venom). 
Dose.--Mother tincture diluted locally and 3x internally. 

ABROTANUM 
Mind.-—Cross, irritable, anxious, depressed. 
Face.--Wrinkled, cold, dry, pale. Blue rings around dull-looking eyes. Comedones, with 
emaciation. Nosebleed. Angioma of the face. 
Stomach.--Slimy taste. Appetite good, but emaciation progresses. Food passes undigested. Pain 
in stomach; worse at night; cutting, gnawing pain. Stomach feels as if swimming in water; feels 
cold. Gnawing hunger and whining. Indigestion, with vomiting of large quantities of offensive 
fluid. 
Abdomen.--Hard lumps in abdomen. Distended. Alternate diarrhoea and constipation. 
Hemorrhoids; frequent urging; bloody stools; worse as rheumatic pains abate. Ascarides. Oozing 
from umbilicus. Sensation as if bowels were sinking down. 
Respiratory.--Raw feeling. Impeded respiration. Dry cough following diarrhoea. Pain across 
chest; severe in region of heart. 
Back.--Neck so weak cannot hold head up. Back lame, weak, and painful. Pain in lumbar region 
extending along spermatic cord. Pain in sacrum, with hemorrhoids. 
Extremities.--Pain in shoulders, arms, wrists, and ankles. Pricking and coldness in fingers and 
feet. Legs greatly emaciated. Joints stiff and lame. Painful contraction of limbs (Amm mur). 
Skin.--Eruptions come out on face; are suppressed, and the skin becomes purplish. Skin flabby 
and loose. Furuncles. Falling out of hair. Itching chilblains. 
Modalities.--Worse, cold air, checked secretions. Better, motion. 
Relationship.--Compare: Scrophularia; Bryonia; Stellaria; Benzoic acid, in gout. Iodine, Natr 
mur in marasmus. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. 

ABSINTHIUM 
Mind.-Hallucinations. Frightful visions. Kleptomania. Loss of memory. Forgets what has 
recently happened. Wants nothing to do with anybody. Brutal. 
Head.--Vertigo, with tendency to fall backward. General confusion. Wants head low. Pupils 
dilated unequally. Face blue. Spasmodic facial twitching. Dull occipital headache (Ge/sem, 
Picric ac). 
Mouth.—Jaws fixed. Bites tongue; trembles; feels as if swollen and too large; protruding. 
Throat.--Scalded sensation; as of a lump. 
Stomach.--Nausea; retching; eructation. Bloated around waist and abdomen. Wind colic. 
Urine.--Constant desire. Very strong odor; deep yellow color (Kali phos). 
Sexual.--Darting pain in right ovary. Spermatorrhoea, with relaxed, enfeebled parts. Premature 
menopause. 
Chest.--Sensation of weight on chest. Irregular, tumultuous action of heart can be heard in back. 
Extremities.--Pain in limbs. Paralytic symptoms. 
Relationship.--Compare: Alcohol; Artemisia; Hydrocy acid; Cina; Cicuta. 
Dose.--First to sixth potency. 

ACALYPHA INDICA 
Chest.--Cough dry, hard, followed by hemoptysis; worse in morning and at night. Constant and 
severe pain in chest. Blood bright red and not profuse in morning; dark and clotted in afternoon. 
Pulse soft and compressible. Burning in pharynx, cesophagus, and stomach. 
Abdomen.--Burning in intestines. Spluttering diarrhea with forcible expulsion of noisy flatus, 
bearing down pains and tenesmus. Rumbling distention, and griping pain in abdomen. Rectal 
heemorrhage; worse in morning. 
Skin.--Jaundice. Itching and circumscribed furuncle-like swellings. 
Modalities.-- Worse in morning. 
Relationship.--Compare: Millefol; Phosphor; Acetic acid; Kali nit. 
Dose.--Third to sixth potency. 

ACETICUM ACIDUM 
Mind.--Irritable, worried about business affairs. 
Head.--Nervous headache, from abuse of narcotics. Blood rushes to head with delirium. 
Temporal vessels distended. Pain across root of tongue. 
Face.--Pale, waxen, emaciated. Eyes sunken, surrounded by dark rings. Bright red. Sweaty. 
Epithelioma of lip. Cheeks hot and flushed. Aching in left jaw-point. 
Stomach.--Salivation. Fermentation in stomach. Intense burning thirst. Cold drinks distress. 
Vomits after every kind of food. Epigastric tenderness. Burning pain as of an ulcer. Cancer of 
stomach. Sour belching and vomiting. Burning waterbrash and profuse salivation. 
Hyperchlorhydria and gastralgia. Violent burning pain in stomach and chest, followed by 
coldness of skin and cold sweat on forehead. Stomach feels as if she had taken a lot of vinegar. 
Abdomen.--Feels as if abdomen was sinking in. Frequent watery stools, worse in morning. 
Tympanitic. Ascites. Hemorrhage from bowels. 
Urine.--Large quantities of pale urine. Diabetes, with great thirst and debility (Phos ac). 
Female.--Excessive catamenia. Hemorrhages after labor. Nausea of pregnancy. Breasts 
painfully enlarged, distended with milk. Milk impoverished, bluish, transparent, sour. Anzemia of 
nursing mothers. 
Respiratory.--Hoarse, hissing respiration; difficult breathing; cough when inhaling. 
Membranous croup. Irritation of trachea and bronchial tubes. False membrane in throat. Profuse 
bronchorrheea. Putrid sore throat (gargle). 
Back.--Pain in back, relieved only by lying on abdomen. 
Extremities.--Emaciation. Edema of feet and legs. 
Skin.--Pale, waxen, cedematous. Burning, dry, hot skin, or bathed in profuse sweat. Diminished 
sensibility of the surface of body. Useful after stings, bites, etc. Varicose swellings. Scurvy; 
anasarca. Bruises; sprains. 
Fever.--Hectic, with drenching night-sweats. Red spot on left cheek. No thirst in fever. 
Ebullitions. Sweat profuse, cold. 
Relationship.--Acetic acid is antidotal to all anzesthetic vapors. Counteracts sausage poisoning. 
Compare: Ammon acet (Profuse saccharine urine, patient is bathed in sweat). Benzoin 
oderiferum--Spice-wood (night sweats). Ars; China; Digitalis; Liatris (General anasarca in 
heart and kidney disease, dropsy, and chronic diarrhoea). 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. Not to be repeated too often, except in croup. 

ACETANILIDUM 
Head.--Enlarged sensation. Fainting. Moral depravity. 
Eyes.--Pallor of optic discs, contracted visual field and shrinking retinal vessel; mydriasis. 
Heart.--Weak, irregular, with blue mucous membranes, albuminuria, cedema of feet and ankles. 
Relationship.--Compare: Antipyrin. 
Dose.--Used as a sedative and antipyretic for various forms of headache and neuralgia in doses 
of one to three grains. For the homeopathic indications use the third potency. 

ACONITUM NAPELLUS 
Mind.--Great fear, anxiety, and worry accompany every ailment, however trivial. Delirium is 
characterized by unhappiness worry, fear, raving, rarely unconsciousness. Forebodings and 
fears. Fears death but believes that he will soon die; predicts the day. Fears the future, a crowd, 
crossing the street. Restlessness, tossing about. Tendency to start. Imagination acute, 
clairvoyance. Pains are intolerable; they drive him crazy. Music is unbearable; makes her sad 
(Ambra). Thinks his thoughts come from the stomach--that parts of his body are abnormally 
thick. Feels as if what had just been done was a dream. 
Head.--Fullness; heavy, pulsating, hot, bursting, burning undulating sensation. Intercranial 
pressure (Hedera Helix). Burning headache, as if brain were moved by boiling water (/ndigo). 
Vertigo; worse on rising (Nux. Opium) and shaking head. Sensation on vertex as if hair were 
pulled or stood on end. Nocturnal furious delirium. 
Eyes.--Red, inflamed. Feel dry and hot, as if sand in them. Lids swollen, hard and red. Aversion 
to light. Profuse watering after exposure to dry, cold winds, reflection from snow, after 
extraction of cinders and other foreign bodies. 
Ears.--Very sensitive to noises; music is unbearable. External ear hot, red, painful, swollen. 
Earache (Cham). Sensation as of drop of water in left ear. 
Nose.--Smell acutely sensitive. Pain at root of nose. Coryza much sneezing; throbbing in nostrils. 
Hemorrhage of bright red blood. Mucous membrane dry, nose stopped up; dry or with but 
scanty watery coryza. 
Face.--Red, hot, flushed, swollen. One cheek red, the other pale (Cham, Ipec). On rising the red 
face becomes deathly pale, or he becomes dizzy. Tingling in cheeks and numbness. Neuralgia, 
especially of left side, with restlessness, tingling, and numbness. Pain in jaws. 
Mouth.—Numb, dry, and tingling. Tongue swollen; tip tingles. Teeth sensitive to cold. 
Constantly moves lower jaw as if chewing. Gums hot and inflamed. Tongue coated white (Antim 
crud). 
Throat.--Red, dry, constricted, numb, prickling, burning, stinging. Tonsils swollen and dry. 
Stomach.--Vomiting, with fear, heat, profuse sweat and increased urination. Thirst for cold 
water. Bitter taste of everything except water. Intense thirst. Drinks, vomits, and declares he will 
die. Vomiting, bilious mucous and bloody, greenish. Pressure in stomach with dyspnecea. 
Hematemesis. Burning from stomach to cesophagus. 
Abdomen.--Hot, tense, tympanitic. Sensitive to touch. Colic, no position relieves. Abdominal 
symptoms better after warm soup. Burning in umbilical region. 
Rectum.--Pain with nightly itching and stitching in anus. Frequent, small stool with tenesmus; 
green, like chopped herbs. White with red urine. Choleraic discharge with collapse, anxiety, and 
restlessness. Bleeding hemorrhoids (Hamam). Watery diarrhoea in children. They cry and 
complain much, are sleepless and restless. 
Urine.--Scanty, red, hot, painful. Tenesmus and burning at neck of bladder. Burning in urethra. 
Urine suppressed, bloody. Anxiety always on beginning to urinate. Retention, with screaming 
and restlessness, and handling of genitals. Renal region sensitive. Profuse urination, with profuse 
perspiration and diarrhcea. 
Male.--Crawling and stinging in glans. Bruised pain in testicles, swollen, hard. Frequent 
erections and emissions. Painful erections. 
Female.--Vagina dry, hot, sensitive. Menses too profuse, with nosebleed, too protracted, late. 
Frenzy on appearance of menses. Suppressed from fright, cold, in plethoric subjects. Ovaries 
congested and painful. Sharp shooting pains in womb. After-pains, with fear and restlessness. 
Respiratory.--Constant pressure in left chest; oppressed breathing on least motion. Hoarse, dry, 
croupy cough; loud, labored breathing. Child grasps at throat every time he coughs. Very 
sensitive to inspired air. Shortness of breath. Larynx sensitive. Stitches through chest. Cough, 
dry, short, hacking; worse at night and after midnight. Hot feeling in lungs. Blood comes up with 
hawking. Tingling in chest after cough. 
Heart.--Tachycardia. Affections of the heart with pain in /eft shoulder. Stitching pain in chest. 
Palpitation, with anxiety, fainting, and tingling in fingers. Pulse full, hard; tense and bounding; 
sometimes intermits. Temporal and carotid arteries felt when sitting. 
Back.--Numb, stiff, painful. Crawling and tingling, as if bruised. Stiffness in nape of neck. 
Bruised pain between scapule. 
Extremities.--Numbness and tingling; shooting pains; icy coldness and insensibility of hands 
and feet. Arms feel lame, bruised, heavy, numb. Pain down left arm (Cact, Crotal, Kalmia, 
Tabac). Hot hands and cold feet. Rheumatic inflammation of joints; worse at night; red shining 
swelling, very sensitive. Hip-joint and thigh feel lame, especially after lying down. Knees 
unsteady; disposition of foot to turn (Aescu/). Weak and lax ligaments of all joints. Painless 
cracking of all joints. Bright red hypothenar eminences on both hands. Sensation as if drops of 
water trickled down the thigh. 
Sleep.--Nightmare. Nightly ravings. Anxious dreams. Sleeplessness, with restless and tossing 
about (Use thirtieth potency). Starts up in sleep. Long dreams, with anxiety in chest. Insomnia of 
the aged. 
Skin.--Red, hot, swollen, dry, burning. Purpura miliaris. Rash like measles. Gooseflesh. 
Formication and numbness. Chilliness and formication down back. Pruritus relieved by 
stimulants. 
Fever.--Cold stage most marked. Cold sweat and icy coldness of face. Coldness and heat 
alternate. Evening chilliness soon after going to bed. Cold waves pass through him. Thirst and 
restlessness always present. Chilly if uncovered or touched. Dry heat, red face. Most valuable 
febrifuge with mental anguish, restlessness, etc. Sweat drenching, on parts lain on; relieving all 
symptoms. 
Modalities.--Better in open air; worse in warm room, in evening and night; worse lying on 
affected side, from music, from tobacco-smoke, dry, cold winds. 
Dose.--Sixth potency for sensory affections; first to third for congestive conditions. Must be 
repeated frequently in acute diseases. Acon is a rapid worker. In Neuralgias tincture of the root 
often preferable, one drop doses (poisonous), or again, the 30th according to susceptibility of 
patient. 

ACTAEA SPICATA 
Head.--Fearful, starts easily; confused. Ebullition of blood to head excited by drinking coffee. 
Vertigo, tearing headache, better in open air, throbbing in brain, pain from crown to between 
eyebrows; heat in forehead, pain in left frontal eminence as if bone were crushed. Itching of 
scalp alternating with heat; nose red at tip, fluent coryza. 
Face.--Violent pain in upper jaw, running from teeth through malar bones to temples. 
Perspiration on face and head. 
Stomach.--Tearing, darting pains in epigastric region, with vomiting. Cramp-like pains in 
stomach and epigastrium, with difficult breathing; sense of suffocation. Sudden lassitude after 
eating. 
Abdomen.--Spasmodic retraction. Sticking pain and distension of hypogastrium. 
Respiratory.--Short, irregular breathing at night, while lying. Great oppression. Shortness of 
breath on exposure to cold air. 
Extremities.--Tearing pains in loins. Rheumatic pains in small joints, wrist, (Ulmus) fingers, 
ankles, toes. Swelling of joints from slight fatigue. Wrist swollen, red, worse any motion. 
Paralytic weakness in the hands. Lame feeling in arms. Pain in knee. Sudden lassitude after 
talking or eating. 
Relationship.--Compare: Cimicif; Cauloph, Led. 
Dose.--Third potency. 

ADONIS VERNALIS 
Head.--Feels light; aches across front, from occiput around temples to eyes. Vertigo on rising, 
turning head quickly or lying down. Tinnitus. Scalp feels tight. Eyes dilated. 
Mouth.—Slimy. Tongue dirty yellow, sore, feels scalded. 
Heart.--Mitral and aortic regurgitation. Chronic aortitis, Fatty heart pericarditis. Rheumatic 
Endocarditis (Kalmia). Prececordial pain, palpitation, and dyspnoea. Marked venous 
engorgement. Cardiac asthma (Quebracho). Fatty heart. Myocarditis, irregular cardiac action, 
constriction and vertigo. Pulse rapid, irregular. 
Stomach.--Heavy weight. Gnawing hunger. Faint feeling in epigastrium. Better out of doors. 
Urine.--Oily pellicle on urine. Scanty, albuminous. 
Respiratory.--Frequent desire to take a long breath. Feeling of weight on chest. 
Sleep.--Restlessness, with horrible dreams. 
Extremities.--Aching in nape. Spine stiff and aching. Edema. 
Relationship.--Adonidin is a cardiac tonic and diuretic. Quarter grain daily, or two to five grains 
of first decimal trit increases arterial pressure and prolongs the diastole, favoring emptying 
engorged veins. Is an excellent substitute for Digitalis and is not cumulative in action. 
Compare: Digit; Cratoeg; Conval; Strophanthus. 
Dose.--Five to ten drops of the tincture. 

ADRENALINUM 
Uses.--Its chief therapeutic use depends on its vaso-constriction action; therefore a most 
powerful and prompt astringent and hemostatic; and invaluable in checking capillary 
heemorrhages, from a// parts, where /ocal or direct application is feasible: nose, ear, mouth, 
throat, larynx, stomach, rectum, uterus, bladder. Hemorrhagic condition not due to defective 
coagulation of the blood. Complete b/oodlessness, ischemia, may be induced with impunity. 
Locally, solutions (1: 10,000-1: 1,000) sprayed or applied on cotton have been very efficient in 
bloodless operations about the eye, nose, throat, and larynx. 
Dose.--Hypodermically, 1-5 m (1: 1,000 solution, as chloride) diluted in water. Internally, 5-30m 
of 1: 1,000 solution. 
Caution.--On account of its affinity for oxygen, the drug easily decomposes in watery and dilute 
acid solutions. The solution must be protected from air and light. It must not be too frequently 
repeated, owing to cardiac and arterial lesions. For homeopathic use 2x to 6x attenuation. 

AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM 
Head.--Depressed and irritable. Head dull, confused, aching as from a cold. Pressure in 
forehead, with nausea, followed by stitches in right hypochondrium. Pain from occiput to frontal 
region, with bruised sensation of the scalp; worse in the morning. Neuralgic stitches from right to 
left through forehead, followed by flying pains in epigastrium. Vertigo when sitting and walking. 
Eyes.--Heavy and hot, with lachrymation, with enlarged blood vessels. Eyeballs sore. 
Nose.--Dry; inspired air feels cold, nasal passages sensitive to it. Coryza, sneezing. Pressure at 
root of nose. Membrane over turbinate bones distended and boggy, dependent upon hepatic 
disorders. 
Mouth.—Scalded feeling. Metallic taste. Salivation. Tongue thickly coated, feels as if scalded. 
Throat.--Hot, dry, raw, stitching pain into ears when swallowing. Follicular pharyngitis 
connected with hepatic congestion. Veins in pharynx distended and tortuous. Throat sensitive to 
inspired air; feels excoriated and constricted, burns like fire on swallowing, in afternoon. Early 
stages of atrophic pharyngitis in dried-up, bilious subjects. Hawking of ropy mucus of sweetish 
taste. 
Stomach.--Weight ofa stone, with gnawing, aching pain; most manifest about three hours after 
meals. Tenderness and fullness in region of liver. 
Abdomen.--Dull aching in liver and epigastrium. Pain at umbilicus. Jaundice; throbbing in 
hypogastrium and pelvis. 
Rectum.--Dry, aching. Feels full of small sticks. Anus raw, sore. Much pain after stool, with 
prolapse. Hemorrhoids, with sharp shooting pains up the back; blind and bleeding; worse during 
climacteric. Large, hard, dry stools. Mucous membrane seems swollen and obstructs the passage. 
Irritation caused by ascarides and aids their expulsion. Burning in anus with chills up and down 
back. 
Urinary.--Frequent, scant, dark, muddy, hot urine. Pain in kidneys, especially left and ureter. 
Male.--Discharge of prostatic fluid at stool. 
Female.--Constant throbbing behind symphysis pubis. Leucorrhoea, with lameness of back 
across the sacro-iliac articulation; dark yellow, sticky corroding; worse after menses. 
Chest.--Feels constricted. Heart's action full and heavy, can feel pulsations all over. Laryngitis; 
coughs depending on hepatic disorders; hot feeling in chest; pain around heart in hemorrhoidal 
subjects. 
Extremities.--Aching and soreness in limbs, in left acromion process with shooting down arms; 
finger tips numb. 
Back.--Lameness in neck; aching between shoulder blades; region of spine feels weak; back and 
legs give out. Backache affecting sacrum and hips; worse walking or stooping. When walking 
feet turn under. Soles feel sore, tired, and swell. Hands and feet swell, and become red after 
washing, feel full. 
Fever.--Chill at 4 pm. Chilliness up and down back. Fever 7 to 12 pm. Evening fever, skin hot 
and dry. Sweat profuse and hot with the fever. 
Modalities.--Worse, in morning on awaking, and from any motion, walking; from moving 
bowels; after eating, afternoon, standing. Better, cool open air. 
Relationship.--Aesculus glabra-Ohio-Buckeye Proctitis. Very painful, dark purple, external 
hemorrhoids, with constipation and vertigo and portal congestion. Speech thick, tickling in 
throat, impaired vision, paresis. Phytolacca (throat dry, more often in acute cases). Negundium 
Americanum--Box-elder--(Engorgements of rectum and piles with great pain, ten-drop doses of 
tincture every two hours). Compare also: Aloe, Collinson. Nux. Sulphur. 
Dose.--Tincture, to third potency. 

AETHUSA CYNAPIUM 
Mind.—Restless, anxious, crying. Sees rats, cats, dogs, etc. Unconscious, delirious. /nability to 
think, to fix the attention. Brain fag. Idiocy may alternate with furor and irritability. 
Head.--Feels bound up, or ina vise. Occipital pain extending down spine; better lying down and 
by pressure. Head symptoms relieved by expelling flatus (Sanguin) and by stool. Hair feels 
pulled. Vertigo with drowsiness, with palpitation; head hot after vertigo ceases. 
Eyes.--Photophobia; swelling of Meibomian glands. Rolling of eyes on falling asleep. Eyes 
drawn downward; pupils dilated. 
Ears.--Feel obstructed. Sense of something hot from ears. Hissing sound. 
Nose.--Stopped up with much thick mucus. Herpetic eruption on tip of nose. Frequent 
ineffectual desire to sneeze. 
Face.--Puffed, red-spotted, collapsed. Expression anxious, full of pain; /inea nasalis marked. 
Mouth.—Dry. Aphthz. Tongue seems too long. Burning and pustules in throat, with difficult 
swallowing. 
Stomach.--/ntolerance of milk; vomiting as soon as swallowed or in large curds. Hungry after 
vomiting. Regurgitation of food about an hour after eating. Violent vomiting of a white frothy 
matter. Nausea at sight of food. Painful contraction of stomach. Vomiting, with sweat and great 
weakness, accompanied by anguish and distress, followed by sleepiness. Stomach feels turned 
upside down, with burning feeling up to the chest. Tearing pains in the stomach extending to 
cesophagus. 
Abdomen.--Cold, internal and external, with aching pain in bowels. Colic, followed by 
vomiting, vertigo, and weakness. Tense, inflated, and sensitive. Bubbling sensation around navel. 
Stool.--Undigested, thin, greenish, preceded by colic, with tenesmus, and followed by 
exhaustion and drowsiness. Cholera infantum; child cold, clammy, stupid, with staring eyes and 
dilated pupils. Obstinate constipation; feels as if all bowel action is lost. Choleraic affections in 
old age. 
Urinary.--Cutting pain in bladder, with frequent urging. Pain in kidneys. 
Female.--Lancinating pains in sexual organs. Pimples; itching when warm. Menses watery. 
Swelling of mammary glands, with lancinating pains. 
Respiratory.--Difficult, oppressed, anxious respiration; crampy constriction. Sufferings render 
patient speechless. 
Heart.--Violent palpitation, with vertigo, headache and restlessness. Pulse rapid, hard and small. 
Back and Extremities.--Want of power to stand up or hold head up. Back feels as if in a vise. 
Aching in small of back. Weakness of lower extremities. Fingers and thumbs clenched. 
Numbness of hands and feet. Violent spasms. Squinting of eyes downward. 
Skin.--Excoriation of thighs in walking. Easy perspiration. Surface of body cold and covered 
with clammy sweat. Lymphatic glands swollen. Itching eruption around joints. Skin of hands dry 
and shrunken. Ecchymosis. Anasarca. 
Fever.--Great heat; no thirst. Profuse, cold sweat. Must be covered during sweat. 
Sleep.--Disturbed by violent startings; cold perspiration. Dozing after vomiting or stool. Child is 
so exhausted, it falls asleep at once. 
Modalities.-- Worse, 3 to 4 am, and evenings; warmth, summer. Better in open air and company. 
Compare: Athamantha (confused head, vertigo better lying down, bitter taste and saliva. Hands 
and feet icy cold); Antimon; Calc; Ars; Cicuta. Complementary: Calc. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. 

AETHIOPS MINERALIS 
Skin.--Eruptions. Favus-like, scrofulous, herpetic and eczematous. 
Relationship.--Aethiops Antimonalis--(Hydrargyrum stibiato sulfuratum).--(often more effective 
than the above in scrofulous eruptions, glandular swellings, otorrhcea and scrofulous eye 
affections, corneal ulcers. Third trituration). Compare: Calc; Sil; Psorin. 
Dose.--The lower triturations, especially the second decimal. 

AGARICUS MUSCARIUS 
Mind.--Sings, talks, but does not answer. Loguacity. Aversion to work. Indifference. 
Fearlessness. Delirium characterized by singing, shouting, and muttering; rhymes and 
prophesies. Begins with paroxysm of yawning. 
The provings bring out four phases of cerebral excitement. 
1. Slight stimulation-shown by increased cheerfulness, courage, loquacity, exalted fancy. 
2. More decided intoxication-great mental excitement and incoherent talking, immoderate gaity 
alternates with melancholy. Perception of relative size of objects is lost, takes long steps and 
jumps over small objects as if they were trunks of trees-a small hole appears as a frightful chasm, 
a spoonful of water an immense lake. Physical strength is increased, can lift heavy loads. With it 
much twitching. 
3. Third stage produces a condition of furious or raging delirium, screaming, raving, wants to 
injure himself, etc. 
4. Fourth stage-mental depression, languor, indifference, confusion, disinclination to work, etc. 
We do not get the active cerebral congestion of Belladonna, but a general nervous excitement 
such as is found in delirium tremens, delirium of fevers, etc. 
Head.--Vertigo from sunlight, and on walking. Head in constant motion. Falling backward, as if 
a weight in occiput. Lateral headache, as if from a nail (Coff; [gnat). Dull headache from 
prolonged desk-work. Icy coldness, like icy needles, or splinters. Neuralgia with icy cold head. 
Desire to cover head warmly (Silica). Headache with nose-bleed or thick mucous discharge. 
Eyes.--Reading difficult, as type seems to move, to swim. Vibrating specters. Double vision 
(Gels), dim and flickering. Asthenopia from prolonged strain, spasm of accommodation. 
Twitching of lids and eyeballs (Codein). Margins of lids red; itch and burn and agglutinate. Inner 
angles very red. 
Ears.--Burn and itch, as if frozen. Twitching of muscles about the ear and noises. 
Nose.--Nervous nasal disturbances. /tching internally and externally. Spasmodic sneezing after 
coughing; sensitiveness; watery non-inflammatory discharge. Inner angles very red. Fetid, dark, 
bloody discharge. Nosebleed in old people. Sensation of soreness in nose and mouth. 
Face.--Facial muscles feel stiff; twitch; face itches and burns. Lancinating, tearing pain in 
cheeks, as of splinters. Neuralgia, as if cold needles ran through nerves or sharp ice touched 
them. 
Mouth.--Burning and smarting on lips. Herpes on lips. Twitching. Taste sweet. Aphthz on roof 
of mouth. Splinter like pains in tongue. Thirsty all the time. Tremulous tongue (Lach). Tongue 
white. 
Throat.--Stitches along eustachian tube to ear. Feels contracted. Small solid balls of phlegm 
thrown up. Dryness of pharynx, swallowing difficult. Scratching in throat; cannot sing a note. 
Stomach.--Empty eructations, tasting of apples. Nervous disturbances, with spasmodic 
contractions, hiccough. Unnatural hunger. Flatulent distention of stomach and abdomen. Profuse 
inodorous flatus. Burning in stomach about three hours after a meal, changing into a dull 
pressure. Gastric disturbance with sharp pains in liver region. 
Abdomen.--Stitching pains in liver, spleen (Ceanothus) and abdomen. Stitches under short ribs, 
left side. Diarrhoea with much fetid flatus. Fetid stools. 
Urinary.--Stitches in urethra. Sudden and violent urging to urinate. Frequent urination. 
Female.--Menses, increased, earlier. Itching and tearing, pressive pains of genitals and back. 
Spasmodic dysmenorrhcea. Severe bearing-down pains, especially after menopause. Sexual 
excitement. Nipples itch, burn. Complaints following parturition and coitus. Leucorrhoea, with 
much itching. 
Respiratory Organs.--Violent attacks of coughing that can be suppressed by effort of will, 
worse eating, pain in head while cough lasts. Spasmodic cough at night after falling asleep, with 
expectoration of little balls of mucus. Labored, oppressed breathing. Cough ends in a sneeze. 
Heart.--/rregular, tumultuous palpitation, after tobacco. Pulse intermittent and irregular. Cardiac 
region oppressed, as if thorax were narrowed. Palpitation with redness of face. 
Back.--Pain, with sensitiveness of spine to touch; worse in dorsal region. Lumbago; worse in 
open air. Crick in back. Twitching of cervical muscles. 
Extremities.--Stiff all over. Pain over hips. Rheumatism better motion. Weakness in loins. 
Uncertain gait. Trembling. /tching of toes and feet as if frozen. Cramp in soles of feet. Pain in 
shin-bone. Neuralgia in locomotor ataxia. Paralysis of lower limbs, with spasmodic condition of 
arms. Numbness of legs on crossing them. Paralytic pain in left arm followed by palpitation. 
Tearing painful contractions in the calves. 
Skin.--Burning, itching, redness, and swelling, as from frostbites. Pimples, hard, like flea-bites. 
Miliary eruption, with intolerable itching and burning. Chilblains. Angioneurotic oedema; 
rosacea. Swollen veins with cold skin. Circumscribed erythematous, papular and pustular and 
cedematous lesions. 
Sleep.--Paroxysms of yawning. Restless from violent itching and burning. On falling asleep, 
starts, twitches, and awakes often. Vivid dreams. Drowsy in daytime. Yawning, followed by 
involuntary laughter. 
Fever.--Very sensitive to cool air. Violent attacks of heat in evening. Copious sweat. Burning 
spots. 
Modalities.-- Worse, open cold air, after eating, after coitus. In cold weather, before a thunder- 
storm. Worse, pressure on dorsal spine, which causes involuntary laughter. Better, moving about 
slowly. 
Relationship.--Compare: Muscarine, the alkaloid of Agaricus (has much power over secretions, 
increasing lachrymal, salivary, hepatic, etc, but diminishing renal; probably neurotic in origin, 
stimulating the terminal fibers of the secretory nerves of all these structures, hence salivation, 
lachrymation and excessive perspiration. Atropin exactly opposes Muscarine. Resembles 
Pilocarpin in action). Amanita vernus-spring mushroom-a variety of Agar Phalloides-Death cup- 
active principle is Phallin, active like Muscarine. Amanita phalloides (Death Cup-Deadly 
Agaric). The poison is a toxalbumin, resembling the poison in the rattle snake and the poison 
excreted by the cholera and diphtheria germs. It acts on the red blood corpuscles, dissolving 
them so that blood escapes into the alimentary canal and the whole system is drained. The 
amount of this toxic principle is small, even handling of specimens and breathing of spores 
affects some people unpleasantly. The poison is slow in development. Even 12 to 20 hours after 
taking it the patient feels all right, but vertigo violent choleraic symptoms with rapid loss of 
strength with death the second or third day, preceded by stupor and spasms. Fatty degeneration 
of liver, heart and kidneys, hemorrhages in lungs, pleura and skin (Dr. J. Schier). Vomiting and 
purging. Continuous urging to stool, but no gastric, abdominal or rectal pain. Intense thirst for 
cold water, dry skin. Lethargic but mentally clear. Sharp changes from rapid to slow and from 
slow to rapid breathing, extreme collapse, suppressed urine, but no cold extremities or cramps. 
Agaric emet (severe vertigo; all symptoms better, cold water; longing for ice-water; gastritis 
cold sweat, vomiting sensation as if stomach was suspended on a string). Zamus (chilblains and 
freckles). Cimicif; Cann ind; Hyos; Tarantula. 
Antidote: Absinth; Coffea; Camphor. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth and two hundredth potency. In skin affections and brain exhaustions 
give the lower attenuations. 

AGAVE AMERICANA 
Relationship.--Compare: Anhalonium,; Lyssin; Lach. 
Dose.--Tincture 

AGNUS CASTUS 
Mind.--Sexual melancholy. Fear of death. Sadness with impression of speedy death. 
Absentminded, forgetful, lack of courage. Illusion of smell-herrings, musk. Nervous depression 
and mental forebodings. 
Eyes.--Pupils dilated (Bell). Itching about eyes; photophobia. 
Nose.--Odor of herring or musk. Aching in dorsum better pressure. 
Abdomen.--Spleen swollen, sore. Stools soft, recede, difficult. Deep fissures in anus. Nausea 
with sensation as if intestines were pressed downwards; wants to support bowels. 
Male.--Yellow discharge from urethra. No erections. Jmpotence. Parts cold, relaxed. Desire 
gone (Selen; Con; Sabal). Scanty emission without ejaculation. Loss of prostatic fluid on 
straining. Gleety discharge. Testicles, cold, swollen, hard, and painful. 
Female.--Scanty menses. Abhorrence of sexual intercourse. Relaxation of genitals, with 
leucorrheea. Agalactia; with sadness. Sterility. Leucorrhcea staining yellow; transparent. 
Hysterical palpitation with nose bleed. 
Relationship.--Compare: Selenium; Phosph ac; Camphor; Lycop. 
Dose.--First to sixth potency. 

AGRAPHIS NUTANS 
Relationship.--Compare: Hydrast; Cepa; Calc phos; Sulph jod; Calc jod. 
Dose.--Third potency. Single doses of tincture (Dr. Cooper). 

AILANTHUS GLANDULOSA 
Head.--General stupor, with sighing. Confused mind, mental depression. Headache, frontal, 
with drowsiness. Passive congestion headaches. Suffused, dilated eyes; photophobia. Face dusky. 
Thin, copious, ichorous, bloody nasal discharge. 
Throat.--Inflamed, cedematous, dusky red. Much swelling, internal and external. Dry, rough, 
scraping, choking feeling. Neck tender and swollen. Hoarse, croupy voice. Tongue dry and 
brown. Teeth covered with sordes. Pain in swallowing extends to the ears. 
Respiratory.--Hurried breathing; irregular. Dry, hacking cough. Lungs sore and tired. 
Sleep.--Drowsy, restless. Heavy, disturbed, unrefreshing. 
Skin.--Miliary, livid rash, returns annually. Large blisters filled with dark serum. /rregular, 
patchy, livid eruption, disappearing on pressure. Cold. Raynaud's disease. 
Relationship.--Antidotes: Rhus; Nux. 
Compare: Ammon carb; Bapt; Arn; Mur ac; Lach; Rhus. 
Dose.--First to sixth potency. 

ALETRIS FARINOSA 
Mind.--Power and energy weakened. Confused feelings. Cannot concentrate mind. Fainting, 
with vertigo. 
Mouth.--Much frothy saliva. 
Stomach.--Disgust for food. Least food causes distress. Fainting spells, with vertigo. Vomiting 
during pregnancy. Nervous dyspepsia. Flatulent colic. 
Rectum.--Loads up with feces-paretic condition. Stool large, hard, difficult, great pain. 
Female.--Premature and profuse menses, with labor-like pains (Bell; Cham, Kali c; Plat). 
Retarded and scanty flow (Senecio). Uterus seems heavy. Prolapse, with pain in right inguinal 
region. Leucorrhcea due to weakness and anzemia. Habitual tendency to abortion. Muscular pains 
during pregnancy. 
Relationship.--Compare: Helonias; Hydrastis; Tanacet; China. 
Dose.--Tincture to third potency. 
... and so on ...
