Aconitum Napellus
There are a number of Aconites, but the one that we shall study is the Aconitum napellus. When it is prepared in the old-fashioned way of making a tincture from the root it is a deadly poison, but when it is prepared by the potentizing method of Hahnemann its poisonous qualities are destroyed and it becomes a most potent remedy.

Aconite is a very fleeting remedy; its action is of short duration. It is a violent poison, and in the provings that were made by Hahnemann and his followers we have the image of a quick, short, violent sickness. All the sicknesses that Aconite will cure are of that type. They come on suddenly. They are violent in their action. But they are of short duration. Aconite is suitable in those acute affections that have a very short prodromal period, or none at all. The patient is taken violently sick.

The first and most prominent feature of the Aconite impression upon the economy is a state of fear. The patient is always in a state of fear, he has anxiety, his mind is full of forebodings, his anxiety is depicted upon his countenance. If he is sick, he is sure he is not going to recover. He predicts the day that he will die. The Aconite fear is a fear of death. It is a fear that is not connected with any other portion of his economy, except that which is natural to such a fear. It is a fear that is overwhelming.

The Aconite patient has a peculiar kind of restlessness. He is always tossing about. He is always in a state of anxiety. If he has a pain, it is an unbearable pain, he cannot endure it, he becomes frantic with it. This restlessness is mental as well as physical. The mind is in a turmoil, the body is in a state of turmoil.

The Aconite pains are of a sticking, tearing, cutting character. They are very violent. They are felt most in the serous membranes and in the muscular tissues.

The complaints of Aconite are often caused by exposure to dry, cold winds. You will have a patient coming to you with a violent cold. He tells you that he was out in a dry, cold wind yesterday, and last night he was taken with this cold. It is a violent coryza, with much sneezing, throbbing in the nostrils, and a watery discharge. The mucous membranes are dry, or there is but a scanty watery coryza.

In the first stage of an inflammation, before the stage of exudation has come on, Aconite is the remedy. It is the remedy for the inflammatory fever, the synochal fever of the old authors. The patient has a high temperature, a bounding pulse, a dry, hot skin, and he is very restless. He is thirsty for large quantities of cold water.

Aconite is a great remedy for hæmorrhages. The blood is bright red, and it flows in a gush. It is a remedy for hæmorrhage from the nose, from the lungs, from the uterus.

Aconite is a remedy for croup. The child has a dry, hoarse, croupy cough. He wakes up in the night with this cough, and he is very much frightened. He has a high fever, a dry, hot skin, and he is very restless.

Aconite is a remedy for measles. The child has a high fever, a dry, hot skin, and he is very restless. The eruption is slow in coming out. The child has a dry, hacking cough.

Aconite is a remedy for the bad effects of fright. A person has been very much frightened, and as a result he has a great deal of anxiety and fear. He is afraid to go out in the street, he is afraid to cross a street, he is afraid of a crowd.

The mental symptoms of Aconite are very important. The patient is very anxious, very fearful. He has a great fear of death. He predicts the day he will die. He is very restless, both mentally and physically. He is very sensitive to music; it makes him sad.

The head symptoms of Aconite are a feeling of fullness, as if the head would burst. There is a great deal of heat in the head. The scalp is sensitive to the touch. The hair feels as if it were standing on end.

The eye symptoms of AAconite are very important. The eyes are red and inflamed. There is a great deal of photophobia. The pains in the eyes are very severe. They are sticking, tearing pains. There is a feeling of dryness in the eyes, as if there were sand in them.

The ear symptoms of Aconite are a great sensitiveness to noises. The ears are red and hot. There is a great deal of pain in the ears. The pains are sticking, tearing pains.

The nose symptoms of Aconite are a great sensitiveness of the sense of smell. There is a great deal of sneezing. There is a watery coryza. The mucous membrane of the nose is dry.

The face of the Aconite patient is red and hot. The cheeks are red. One cheek may be red and the other pale.

The mouth symptoms of Aconite are a dry mouth, a coated tongue, and a great deal of thirst for cold water.

The throat symptoms of Aconite are a dry, red, constricted feeling in the throat. The tonsils are swollen and red.

The stomach symptoms of Aconite are a great deal of thirst for cold water. The patient vomits what he has eaten. The vomited matter is bitter.

The abdomen of the Aconite patient is hot and tender to the touch. There is a great deal of pain in the abdomen. The pains are sticking, tearing pains.

The stool of the Aconite patient is watery and white. The urine is scanty and red.

The respiratory symptoms of Aconite are a dry, hoarse, croupy cough. The breathing is oppressed. The patient is very sensitive to the inspired air.

The heart symptoms of Aconite are a great deal of anxiety about the heart. There is a feeling as if the heart would cease to beat. The pulse is full, hard, and bounding.

The back of the Aconite patient is numb, stiff, and painful.

The extremities of the Aconite patient are numb and tingling. The pains in the extremities are sticking, tearing pains.

The skin of the Aconite patient is dry and hot. There is a rash like measles.

The fever of the Aconite patient is a high fever, with a dry, hot skin, a bounding pulse, and great restlessness.

The sleep of the Aconite patient is restless. He has anxious dreams. He starts up in his sleep.

The modalities of Aconite are worse in the evening and at night, in a warm room, from lying on the affected side, from music. Better in the open air.

The relationship of Aconite is complementary to Sulphur. It is followed well by Arnica, Belladonna, Bryonia, Ipecac, Phosphorus, Pulsatilla, Rhus tox., Spongia, Sulphur.